1 Corinthians 11:3 ESV / 267 helpful votes	
But I want you to understand that the head of every man is Christ, the head of a wife is her husband, and the head of Christ is God.

1 Peter 3:7 ESV / 151 helpful votes	
Likewise, husbands, live with your wives in an understanding way, showing honor to the woman as the weaker vessel, since they are heirs with you of the grace of life, so that your prayers may not be hindered.

Genesis 3:16 ESV / 120 helpful votes	
To the woman he said, “I will surely multiply your pain in childbearing; in pain you shall bring forth children. Your desire shall be for your husband, and he shall rule over you.”

Ephesians 5:25 ESV / 109 helpful votes	
Husbands, love your wives, as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her,

1 Timothy 5:8 ESV / 99 helpful votes	
But if anyone does not provide for his relatives, and especially for members of his household, he has denied the faith and is worse than an unbeliever.

Colossians 3:21 ESV / 53 helpful votes	
Fathers, do not provoke your children, lest they become discouraged.

Ephesians 6:4 ESV / 42 helpful votes	
Fathers, do not provoke your children to anger, but bring them up in the discipline and instruction of the Lord.

Ephesians 5:22 ESV / 40 helpful votes	
Wives, submit to your own husbands, as to the Lord.

Ephesians 6:1 ESV / 39 helpful votes	
Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right.

Proverbs 31:12 ESV / 39 helpful votes	
She does him good, and not harm, all the days of her life.

Ephesians 5:23 ESV / 32 helpful votes	
For the husband is the head of the wife even as Christ is the head of the church, his body, and is himself its Savior.

Colossians 3:18-19 ESV / 26 helpful votes	
Wives, submit to your husbands, as is fitting in the Lord. Husbands, love your wives, and do not be harsh with them.

1 Thessalonians 2:11-12 ESV / 17 helpful votes	
For you know how, like a father with his children, we exhorted each one of you and encouraged you and charged you to walk in a manner worthy of God, who calls you into his own kingdom and glory.

1 Corinthians 1:10 ESV / 13 helpful votes	
I appeal to you, brothers, by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that all of you agree, and that there be no divisions among you, but that you be united in the same mind and the same judgment.

Ephesians 5:21 ESV / 12 helpful votes	
Submitting to one another out of reverence for Christ.

1 Timothy 3:4 ESV / 6 helpful votes	
He must manage his own household well, with all dignity keeping his children submissive,

Ephesians 5:28 ESV / 6 helpful votes	
In the same way husbands should love their wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself.

2 Samuel 19:1-43 ESV / 6 helpful votes	
It was told Joab, “Behold, the king is weeping and mourning for Absalom.” So the victory that day was turned into mourning for all the people, for the people heard that day, “The king is grieving for his son.” And the people stole into the city that day as people steal in who are ashamed when they flee in battle. The king covered his face, and the king cried with a loud voice, “O my son Absalom, O Absalom, my son, my son!” Then Joab came into the house to the king and said, “You have today covered with shame the faces of all your servants, who have this day saved your life and the lives of your sons and your daughters and the lives of your wives and your concubines, ...

Philippians 1:1-30 ESV / 5 helpful votes	
Paul and Timothy, servants of Christ Jesus, To all the saints in Christ Jesus who are at Philippi, with the overseers and deacons: Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. I thank my God in all my remembrance of you, always in every prayer of mine for you all making my prayer with joy, because of your partnership in the gospel from the first day until now. ...

Proverbs 22:17 ESV / 3 helpful votes	
Incline your ear, and hear the words of the wise, and apply your heart to my knowledge,



