2 Corinthians 6:16 As God hath said, I will dwell in them, and walk in them...

Matthew 7:7 Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you.

Psalms 28:6 Blessed be the LORD, because he hath heard the voice of my supplications.  

1 Corinthians 2:9 But as it is written, Eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of man, the things which God hath prepared for them that love him.

Psalms 52:8 But I am like a green olive tree in the house of God: I trust in the mercy of God for ever and ever.

Luke 12:31 But rather seek ye the kingdom of God; and all these things shall be added unto you.

Galatians 5:22 But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, longsuffering, gentleness, goodness, faith...

1 Samuel 12:24 Only fear the LORD, and serve him in truth with all your heart: for consider how great things he hath done for you.

Psalms 27:1 The LORD is my light and my salvation; whom shall I fear? the LORD is the strength of my life; of whom shall I be afraid?

Isaiah 33:6
And wisdom and knowledge shall be the stability of thy times, and strength of salvation: the fear of the LORD is his treasure.

Jeremiah 33:3
Call unto me, and I will answer thee, and shew thee great and mighty things, which thou knowest not.

Proverbs 16:3
Commit thy works unto the LORD, and thy thoughts shall be established.

James 4:8
Draw nigh to God, and he will draw nigh to you. Cleanse your hands, ye sinners; and purify your hearts, ye double minded.

Isaiah 55:8-9
For my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways my ways, declares the LORD. As the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways and my thoughts than your thoughts.

Matthew 6:21
For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also.

1 Corinthians 1:3
Grace be unto you, and peace, from God our Father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ.

Joshua 1:9
Have not I commanded thee? Be strong and of a good courage; be not afraid, neither be thou dismayed: for the LORD thy God is with thee whithersoever thou goest.

Psalms 147:3
He healeth the broken in heart, And bindeth up their wounds.


Chesterton Quotes:
=================

The Nature of God
“The riddles of God are more satisfying than the solutions of man.” - Introduction to The Book of Job.

Creativity
“Poets do not go mad; but chess-players do. Mathematicians go mad, and cashiers; but creative artists very seldom. I am not, as will be seen, in any sense attacking logic: I only say that this danger does lie in logic, not in imagination.” - Orthodoxy

Mystery
As long as you have mystery you have health; when you destroy mystery you create morbidity. - Orthodoxy

Individuality
“A dead thing can go with the stream, but only a living thing can go against it.” – The Everlasting Man

Humility
“It has been often said, very truly, that religion is the thing that makes the ordinary man feel extraordinary; it is an equally important truth that religion is the thing that makes the extraordinary man feel ordinary.” – Charles Dickens: A Critical Study

Sin
“Certain new theologians dispute original sin, which is the only part of Christian theology which can really be proved.” – Orthodoxy

Theology
“Theology is only thought applied to religion.” – The New Jerusalem

Religion
“One of the chief uses of religion is that it makes us remember our coming from darkness, the simple fact that we are created.” The Boston Sunday Post

Idolatry
“Idolatry is committed, not merely by setting up false gods, but also by setting up false devils; by making men afraid of war or alcohol, or economic law, when they should be afraid of spiritual corruption and cowardice.” - Illustrated London News

Religious Liberty
“The man of the true religious tradition understands two things: liberty and obedience. The first means knowing what you really want. The second means knowing what you really trust.” - G.K.’s Weekly

Humility
Humility is the mother of giants. One sees great things from the valley; only small things from the peak. - The Innocence of Father Brown

Humor
It is the test of a good religion whether you can joke about it. – All Things Considered

Being Childlike
Because children have abounding vitality, because they are in spirit fierce and free, therefore they want things repeated and unchanged. They always say, 'Do it again'; and the grown-up person does it again until he is nearly dead. For grown-up people are not strong enough to exult in monotony. But perhaps God is strong enough to exult in monotony. It is possible that God says every morning, 'Do it again' to the sun; and every evening, 'Do it again' to the moon. It may not be automatic necessity that makes all daisies alike; it may be that God makes every daisy separately, but has never got tired of making them. It may be that He has the eternal appetite of infancy; for we have sinned and grown old, and our Father is younger than we." - Orthodoxy

Thought
“The poet only asks to get his head into the heavens. It is the logician who seeks to get the heavens into his head. And it is his head that splits.” – Orthodoxy

Freedom
“According to most philosophers, God in making the world enslaved it. According to Christianity, in making it, He set it free. God had written, not so much a poem, but rather a play; a play he had planned as perfect, but which had necessarily been left to human actors and stage-managers, who had since made a great mess of it.” – Orthodoxy

